An Annuil day was meant to be the day that you celebrated your local saint, but in Llanthuys
case it was on the 3rd of May and not in November when the date of Sindhildids day is.
It's supposed to commemorate the defeat of John O'Neill, an Irish pirate who invaded
the area and was repelled by the local people.
The events took place down in the Colhew meadows behind the beach.
A band led by a local dignitary would make their way down to the beach to be met by
someone playing the pirates.
And a battle would then take place.
It was an opportunity to crack the heads of your enemies and then make up with them afterwards,
because everyone then on the defeat of John O'Neill would then march back up to the town
and drink and eat to their hearts content.
This used to take place until the time of the odd fellows, a friendly society who changed
things in the mid-1850s from a revel to a more sedate march round the town, a church
service and lunch in the town hall, accompanied of course by copious amounts of ale.